.\" Title: lsenq
.\" Author: John McKown 
.\" Date: January, 2012 
.\" 
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.TH "lsenq" "1" "January, 2012" "John McKown" "z/OS UNIX Utilities from HealthMarkets"
.SH "NAME"
lsenq \- list ENQ information
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B lsenq
[-t [\fIfield-separator\fR]]
[-d]
.I [qname] rname
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
lists the 
.B ENQ
information for all the enqueues which match the specified
.B QNAME
and
.B RNAME
on the command line.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 3n
.B \-t 
[\fIfield-separator\fR]
.sp
use the given character(s) as the field separator. Defaults to a tab.
.TP 3n
.B \-d
.sp
output debugging information to
.IR stderr .
.TP 3n
.B \-o
.sp
encode non-printable bytes with octal escapes.
.TP 3n
.B \-h
.sp
encode non-printable bytes with hexadecimal escapes.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
 =0 The command has completed successfully.
.
 !=0 The return code from the 
.B ISGQUERY
request.
.
 In this case, a message will be written to
.I stderr
containing the return and reason code from ISGQUERY.
.SH "NOTES"
If there is only one argument: 
.TP 3n
\(bu
It is assumed to be the 
.BR "RNAME" .
.TP 3n
\(bu
The 
.B "QNAME"
is assumed to be 
.BR "SYSDSN" .
.TP 3n
\(bu
The value is converted to upper case since data set names
are usually in upper case.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.SS "List ENQs on a specific DSN"
.B lsenq 
.I isp.sisppenu

.SS "list ENQs on a data set name which contains lower case characters"
.B lsenq
.I SYSDSN
.I DSN.WITH.lower.case.IN.IT

.SS "list ENQs on a pattern RNAME with a specific QNAME"
.B lsenq
.I SYSIKJUA
.I TSH*
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP 
John McKown
.sp \-1n
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2012 HealthMarkets
