.\"     Title: ams     
.\"    Author: John McKown
.\"      Date: 6 March 2012
.\"
.TH "ams" "1" "March, 2012" "z/OS UNIX Utilites from" "John McKown at HealthMarkets"                  
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
ams \- Invoke batch IDCAMS, redirecting input from stdin and output to stdout.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.RS 3n
.nf
\fBams\fR                                     
    
.fi
.RE
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBams\fR     
command attaches the IDCAMS program with a parameter list which invokes an 
input routine to get its input and an output routine to print its output.
.PP
The input routine reads stdin (file descriptor 0). It sends individual lines delimited by an NEL
character (0x15) as separate input records (with the NEL removed), to be processed by IDCAMS.
.PP
The output routine receives the output which normally goes to SYSPRINT. This routine
adds an NEL (0x15) to the end of the line and writes it to stdout (file descriptor 1).
.PP
.SH "FILES"
.PP
\fBams\fR     
 does not use any input or output files.                                                                                                              
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.SS "Local z/OS Examples"
.TP 3n
ams                                               
Reads from the user's terminal and write to it.       
.TP 3n
ams <input.file                                        
Uses redirection of stdin to read its commands from
\fBinput.file\fR.
Output goes to the user's terminal.
.TP 3n
ams <input.file >output.file                           
Uses redirection of stdin to read its commands from
\fBinput.file\fR and redirection of stdout to write
its output to \fBoutput.file\fR.
.TP 3n
cat input.file1 input.file2 | ams
Uses redirection of stdin from a pipe to read its commands from
the \fBcat\fRenation of files \fBinput.file1\fR and \fBinput.file2\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.SH "AUTHORS"
.PP
\fBJohn\fR \fBMcKown\fR
.sp -1n
.IP "" 3n
Author.
.PP
.sp -1n
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \(co 2012, HealthMarkets, Inc.
